# Learning Patience for learning

Progress has been made. The basic structure for initial build is in place and close to final form. The Emulators are running, and launching with minimal changes in thr nix files, and I have decided on he inital release emulators, what is going to be versioned, and what is not.

Going the nix route, which I decided before the holidays, was a good call.
Instead of doing a bunch of dockerfiles that mirror the CI enviornments of the
individual projects, that is replaced with a mechanism that get's the latest 
Source Control revision, and determines the hash to feed into a nix builder.
Is that perfect system, not at all, but it reduces the mental load greatly
while still maintaining access to fine tune the compilation of the emulator
projects.

In that, I was so frestrated with Nix, that I almost abandoned the project
altogether. If Nix wasn't going to abstract down the builds and I need to do a 
bunch of reverse engineering on the packages every update, then there was no
point in continuing on. however I kept trying some changes, reading the manual,
and then got to a point that I realized I needed to reread the Nix stuff from
the sources again.

Nix was "sold" to me as a language with tools that were so fine grained and 
everything just worked. Now there was a fair amount of baggage of it being a
hard language and you can't just jump in. If I was standing on a hill, I could
see my goal at the to of the mountain with the path that dipped below to the 
valley out of view and reimerged leading straight to the top of the mountain. 

So the obstacles in the valley that I didn't see is the understanding of the
purpose language and the true operations of the mechanisms underlying the nix 
system. Nix has consolidated alot of it's reference under NixOS and the
language of Nix. For me, I had trouble connecting the dots because I was
not using nixos, just a shell, and had the goal of just changing packages.

So after getting some wins, losses, and Figured out that I need to take what I
learned from my 80ish hours of use and go back to the nixpkgs reference and
nixpills, and start to truly understand what I'm looking at through the idea 
of build anything.